+++
title = "Laid off - Day 1 (ish)"
description = "I'm trying to stay sane"
draft = false
date = 2024-01-07
+++
---
## So I got laid off...

I got laid off on Thursday, January 4th. To say that this wasn't the note I wanted to start off 2024 with is a *major* understatement. This news was so unplanned
that I had just gotten out of a meeting discussing new year goals with one of the senior developers. I didn't have a chance to say goodbye to my coworkers who I've become friends with in the year and a half I've worked at Heritage, I didn't have a chance to hand off my notes, I had less than 30 minutes before my account would get locked out. You'd think that even having worked for a year, I'd at least get one last day.

In addition to...all of that, it's going to bug me for a while that I wasn't able to complete my outstanding tasks/tickets. I had a really neat idea for PDF tracking that I was on the verge of completing before I got the *good news*. I like to prode myself in seeing work through to the end, and being forced to not complete work that I had assigned to me or that I created for myself is tough to swallow. I realize the irony in that considering my Github is loaded up with half-baked projects, but those projects don't pay the bills. 

I'm a good software developer. I have a lot of good ideas, and I have the drive to research, document, and implement my ideas. I know that these layoffs supposedly don't have anything to do with me and my work, but some consideration had to be made to pick me specifically. I can't help but wonder what I could have done differently.

I have a plan, I have a support system, and I have a professional network. I'm going to be okay. I just need some time to lick my wounds. 